I wrote this book for you as much as I wrote it for myself. I hope you believe one thing in this life. That I love you. I love our family. I love the people who came before us. I love the people who will come after. I loved you before I knew you.  I hope this letter finds you well. I would like to be with you now. I hope that you know wherever I am, I am advancing our shared cause. Please know that you can count on me until the last drop of my blood is spilled. Reread these words as often as you need to. Now matter what happens, we have each other. You will find the solution your looking for here.

If you have already learned to embrace your suffering then you know how I came by this information. I have drafted some of my life’s most important ideas into these pages. Who we are, why we are here. The past and the future. Proof of god. What you should do next. I hope that you consider this valuable. I often wish I had known then what I know now. This is your opportunity to fulfill that wish for yourself if you choose. Don’t give this to anyone who isn’t ready to serve our shared purpose. You have a special purpose and by reading this you are moving closer to understanding what that is.

The book consists of several of my writings, collections of  notes and opinions. I will surely rewrite and edit this document repeatedly. I have titled it TAOR The Age Of Reason so that it can be named something easy to reference. I intended this to be short and for the critical points to be unassailable. I believe I have encapsulated within this document the essence of a modern ontology including both religion and philosophy. It’s not something I invented out of nothing. It’s what I have learned after careful investigation, wise discernment and the conversations I’ve shared with people like you. I am thankful to the people who have humored my countless questions and controversial conversations. Its main principle is to build the person mentally, physically but most importantly spiritually. Further it not only acknowledges the person but the community. Every person must come from a community, without the community there is no person.

My wildest fantasy in writing this is to give the people in my community something to coalesce around. A shared vision and purpose that people can agree on. As a starting point for new discussions and inherently an acceptance that the past is behind and new better things are ahead. A group of people with a shared vision is a powerful force of consciousness. I never intended this to replace your existing religion or other spiritual or philosophical practices. But I admit here, it would be  hard for me to take your viewpoints seriously if you can’t match the same rigor I apply within. This book is different because I only focus on things occurring in our shared reality by making measurements of this reality. When there is death and destruction in the age of decline people tend to see it as the fall. When our existing views are challenged the ego runs away. But it’s through heat , pressure and intense mental energy that indestructible elements are formed and crafted into the weapons of the future. I believe this document is the weapon of the future in spiritual warfare. Inside its pages are a consciousness that you can participate and share in building. I sincerely hope you participate and surpass what I put forth here.

Because I’ll rewrite this several times and because many of the ideas within were provided even by you the reader, I want to do my best to leave ego out of this. Therefore it would be a great service to me if you could return any feedback. I don’t intend to force this on anyone or think it’s right for everyone. One thing I have learned is that whether people choose a path of life or death they have chosen correctly. 