*The faithful can follow directions to arrive at a place they have never been before.* 

In this section are some of the things I am doing in the most straightforward and practical sense. With all the knowledge and decisions I have made there are some fairly large easy to recognize patterns and decisions in my mundane life. If you wanted to try these out it would be pretty easy to imitate and jumpstart your growth and the growth of your community. Don’t try and do everything at once take your time and ease into it. Especially if you share your life with other people who will also be affected. These guidelines are meant to increase your spiritual, mental, physical and material fitness.

***Personal***

1. **Spirit -** Understanding this is my community and acting like it. Don’t talk about TAOR at all. If people ask and I think they are ready then Ill tell them about this book or ideas from it. Don’t trade away the social credibility of others who are doing these things to lift myself. Start lifting others by supporting them as best I can. Make the people in my life feel seen, examine them and try to understand what they're going through. Ask questions and listen thoughtfully. Look for opportunities to help people in my community. Don’t over exert myself. Start treating myself right and take time to check in with myself. It’s ok to be nice to people in general but don’t exert myself for people outside my community. Thinking of my community as a garden. The people are the seeds. A good gardener will know where to invest their time. Im not cultivating weeds.Im doing the right thing.
2. Exit platos cave.Reduce mass media consumption. Enemies are feeding psychological poison into mass media to cause harm. I have removed my tv and stored it. If I want entertaining stories Ill consciously seek them out. If I don’t like reading Ill find someone to read to or someone who will read to me. Find alternative media that would be considered politically incorrect. Watch thing that show the world how it is. All news is extremely biased so if you consume news then consume news from your political opponents as well as who supports your current view. Watch internet media that teaches you to do something new. Be curious. If its something you wouldn't normally watch give it a try. Do not watch porn or social media. Its bad for you.
3. Dedicate time solely to the spiritual. Traditionally this is done by take one day a week to invest completely into the spiritual. Maybe start with an hour and work you way up. Currently I’m doing two 4 hour periods on my weekend. This is time spent thinking about these issues or studying them. If you vectorize spiritual vs physical then its a move away from the physical. Spending time with community members is included in this if you are talking about issues of spirituality and purpose. Also spend even just a few moments in prayer everyday. Think about the distance between your consciousness and Gods, admit your failures and confess a resolution to do better and be hopeful about the future.
4. Mental -  Dedicate time to studying and thinking about the world. Dedicate time to being creative. Nurture personal relationships and reflect on your growth path. At my best I was doing this for 4 hours a day. It was a great experience. Start with what you can. Even just an hour a week. I would recommend doing 10mins of math at the minimum. If you can get together with other people then all the better. Set goals and try to meet them. Try to learn 1 new thing everyday.
5. Live holistically. Spend time with your community. If you don’t have one spend time with prospects or even just normies. Take time to balance your life and nurture those relationships. Plant a garden, even just a single plant and continue from there. Build your ecosystem and nurture it so you have a place to thrive. Remove yourself from negative influences.
6. Find crutches and remove them like meds etc
7. **Physical -** Balance your time as best as possible. If you can wake up with a light instead of an audio alarm use that. Go to sleep instead of binging late night activities. Take a nap during the day if you need one. Exercise so you can stay healthy. I also wear something on my wrist every time I leave the house. Its not something specific but it reminds me of who I am and my commitment to these principles. I don’t tell people what it’s about exactly. I take it off again at night. It symbolizes and reaffirms my commitment each time I put it on.
8. The best products to consume are provided from people who care about your outcome and love you. Body contact items (BCI) like food, water, clothing and household are the most critical. Don’t expose yourself to BCI that is unhealthy. Foods grown with chemicals or processed with chemicals. Food that are heavily processed into an unhealthy state. Don’t use reactive containers or cooking vessels such as plastic or teflon. Avoid new methods of producing BCI that could have unforeseen risk. Don’t drink unfiltered low quality water. The same goes for health and beauty products or clothing. Consider the risks and always ask how safe is this product. Test your air quality and make simple indoor air filters. Put your health first. Find an environment you can flourish in.
9. Real wealth is most importantly the spiritual health first, then the mental health, then the physical health and lastly the physical wealth. Don’t spend money on luxuries when it can be invested into your community. Support groups that support your community and avoid giving to groups that are neutral or don’t support your community. Scrutinize how people spend the money you give them. Always try and work internal to your community first. Live frugally. If your job is stressful don’t overwork yourself. Don’t be an alpha slave consumer. Wealth extraction can happen even parasitically however wealth is generated generationally as explained in the water cycle example. Don’t be flashy. Don’t attract low consciousness parasites. Exit the current systems risks and build a new community outside of it.Then let that new community re-enter those external structures as a strong meta consciousness.

***Community***

Lastly I want to share my practical views and applications towards communities. This is desperately needed and actively discouraged by competing groups. Communities need to be treated like a garden, only plant what you want to grow! The people are like seeds and if you mingle with them you will become them, so be exclusive. Focus on inner growth of consciousness and the external will become easy given time. Close the water cycle and don’t export your most valuable resource with those outside you community. Don’t directly attack opposition groups and force them to respond. Keep them comfortable and confused. Let them fall asleep and never awaken.

1. Build tightly coupled local communities that are small and manageable. Everyone needs to know everyone in the community. If you don’t then its too big and needs to be split up. The small local groups should interact with each other and together with thoughtfulness make those connections external to their group.
2. Build personal connections with people in the community, not structure. Don’t explicitly say who has certain roles, don’t define timelines and dont create systems. However, there are probably systems external to the community that can be filled with community members and its ok to fill those roles.
3. Don’t draw attention to the community. Don’t talk about it externally. Fit in when appropriate and be reserved. This will help avoid those communities who would oppose you and those who would be parasites. When your bringing new people in it would be wise to do so without telling them everything up front. See if they contribute or work on aligning their values before you invite them. Don’t offend people with radical ideas. Harmonize with external groups as best as possible.
4. There are many ways groups of people can be organized from the family size to the nation size. In times of ease it may be ok to allow people to do as they please. When times are tough everyone may have to cooperate very closely. There is no permanent one size fits all solution or system other than growing your consciousness.
5. Create community standards. Genetics, knowledge or wealth are shared resources. Make community decisions around these resources. 
6. Practice Ostrika or shunning. Consider the inlaw and outlaw paradigm. Exclude parasites, inter-community rent seekers, or people who who take more than they offer. Exclude people who pointless exclude people over petty drama or nonsense. Don’t include people just because they are a friend/spouse/child/sibling/etc.
7. Always expect less from others and a lot from yourself. Feed good social cues by being empathetic. Be honest and dont be fake. Admit your wrong and seek help. Take responsibility for making the community into the image it should become.
8. Pray as a group. This should be done at the spousal level or the group level. Whether you understand how it works or not. Its empirically shown to improve the situation. At the very least it re-inforces your shared truth and vision of the future.
9. Community goals could be important opportunities. Donating money to a group fund or working on large group projects can significantly advance the interests of the group. However bad group projects can significantly weaken the group in the same way by investing resources into a pointless ego project such as a big building. Or draining the energy of the participants by asking too much. Cooperation and consensus are important. Only invest into the idea what it is worth.